{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1134\margr1134\margb1134\margt1134\vieww21800\viewh12940\viewkind1
\hyphauto1\hyphfactor90
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 GENERAL INFORMATION
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 This README.txt file was updated on\'a0\'a09/24/24
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 A. Paper associated with this archive
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 Citation: \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Craig R. McClain, Granger W. Hanks, Mark Genung, Philip J. Manlick, S. River D. Bryant, Avery S. Hiley, James R. Junker, Chiara Romano, Greg W. Rouse, John P. Whiteman, Seth D. Newsome \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 (2024) \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Abundance, Niche Diversity, and Differential Species Effects Impact Ecosystem Function on the Bottom of the Ocean. 
\f4\i American Naturalist
\f3\i0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f2 Brief abstract: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Biodiversity-ecosystem function (BEF) research stems back decades and has seen a recent exponential growth of the field. Many questions remain about the importance of functional diversity (complementarity) versus redundancy, differential species effects, and the effects of abundance versus different diversity components.\'a0 We examined the BEF relationship in deep-sea xylophagous bivalve communities using 63 experimental wood falls deployed ~2000m deep in the Gulf of Mexico. We quantified the relationships between spatial and trophic partitioning, species dominance, individual species effects, and community level properties on total wood consumption, our metric for ecosystem function. A total of 26,324 individuals from 12 xylophagous bivalve species were identified. Individual species inhabited complementary spatial and trophic niches, but species effects on total wood consumption greatly varied. The amount of wood consumed increased significantly with total abundance and species richness, although the richness effects reflected increases in abundance. Ecosystem function among wood fall appeared to be predominately a feature of highly abundant core species with greater functional capacity.
\f3 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 B. Originators
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 To be included after acceptance
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 C. Contact information
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 To be included after acceptance
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 D. Dates of data collection
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In May 2017, 63 wood falls were deployed at two sites (Site 1: N = 23, 2171m and Site 2: N = 40m 1970m) in the northern Gulf of Mexico. The first set of wood falls (Site 1: N=23 and Site 2: N=20) were collected in February/April of 2019 after 21/23 months. The remaining 20 wood falls at Site 2 were collected in February of 2020 after 33 months. 
\f3\fs32 \
\

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 E. Geographic Location(s) of data collection
\f1 \

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Site WF1\
27.135N\
89.924W\
2171m\
\'a0\
Site WF4\
28.814N\
87.820W\
1970m
\f3 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 F. Funding Sources
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 NSF: Biological Oceanography.
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 ACCESS INFORMATION
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 1. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data or code
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
CC BY-NC 4.0 DEED
\f3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 2. Data derived from other sources
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 None
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 3. Recommended citation for this data/code archive
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 To be included after acceptance
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 DATA & CODE FILE OVERVIEW
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 This data repository consist of 4 data files, 1 code script, and this README document, with the following data and code filenames and variables
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Data files and variables
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 File: woodfall_logs_ef.csv
\f2\b0 \
Description: Data sheet provides information for individual wood falls including size and deployment information\

\f0\b rows: 
\f2\b0 individual wood falls
\f0\b  
\f2\b0 \

\f0\b column descriptions:
\f2\b0 \
tag number: Number identifier on the plastic tag on each wood fall\
tag color: Color of plastic tag on each wood fall\
experiment: Type of experiment the wood fall was deployed for.  Site 1-Site 4 refer to the experiments testing 12 woodfalls each of Pinus elliotti and Celtis laevigata varying from small to large total weights. aor refers to experiments testing abundance occupancy relationships (two deployments of 12 small and 12 large wood falls).  wood_type refers to an experiment testing 11 species of wood species on community composition with each species represented by four wood fall sizes.  net_nonet referes to an experiment the effects of the mesh wrap and lack of mesh wrap on the wood falls.  surf_area deployes woodfalls with wood-fall weight controlled but of varying surface area. shallow is used to designate any wood fall deployed 50m and shallower.  \
rov dive: Number and letter designation of ROV and dive number for deployment.  GE refers to Oceaneering's Global Explorer.  NA designates no ROV used.\
site: Given name for each deployment site.  WF stands for wood fall.\
latitude: Deployment site in decimal degrees N\uc0\u730  \
longitude: Deployment site in decimal degrees W\uc0\u730 \
depth: Deployment site in meters\
deployment row and column: Arrangement of wood fall deployments at site.  Individual wood falls are deployed 3-4 meters apart.  \
wood type: Wood species of each wood fall.  \
length: Length of wood fall in centimeters\
max diameter: Of the two cut ends, the diameter measurement of the largest in centimeters\
min diameter: Of the two cut ends, the diameter measurement of the smallest in centimeters\
wood mass final: Final deployed weight of the wood fall. Does not include mesh, zip ties, tags, or rope handles. In kilograms.\
notes: Denotes either wood fall categorical size for wood type experiment or aor.  Indicates absence or presence of mesh for net_nonet.  Indicates 2x12 inch plank or 6x6 inch post for surf_area.\
weight_wood_zip: Weight of wood fall with zip tie bands. In kilograms. Precision to 0.01 kg. \
weight_packet_total_1: Weight of wood fall with zip tie bands plus mesh covering, additional zip ties, rope handle, and tags. In kilograms. Precision to 0.01 kg. \
weight_wood_only:  Weight of wood fall only with subtracted bands, mesh, zip ties, rope handle, and tags. In kilograms. Precision to 0.01 kg. \
weight_wrap_only: Weight of bands, mesh, zip ties, rope handle, and tags without wood. In kilograms. Precision to 0.01 kg. \
weight_zip: Total weight of zip ties only calculated from standard set of weighed zip ties of zip tie length. In kilograms. Precision to 0.001 kg. \
zip tie length: Length category of zip tie bands used on wood falls. Two zip tie bands per wood fall.  A list of two numbers for a wood fall designates to different sized zip tie bands.\
Zip Tie Code	Length (inches)	Mass (kg)\
1	60	0.0.255\
2	48	0.0214\
3	41	0.0192\
4	18	0.0077\
5	15.5	0.0059\
9	29.5	0.01\
weight_packet_total_2:  Weight of wood fall with zip tie bands plus mesh covering, additional zip ties, rope handle, and tags. In kilograms.  Weight taken on 5/14/17. Precision to 0.01 kg.\

\f0\b File: woodfall_taxa_ef.csv\
rows: 
\f2\b0 individual species\

\f0\b column descriptions:\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 Description: Data sheet provides taxonomic information for species on wood falls\
Phylum/Class/Order/Family/Genus/Species: Updated taxonomic information for each species.  Based on World Registry of Marine Species taxonomy.\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 File: woodfall_logbytaxa_ef.csv\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 Description: Data sheet provides counts of species per logs.  Wood fall codes (rows) and taxonomy codes (columns) coincide with codes in 
\f0\b woodfall_taxa_ef.csv 
\f2\b0 and
\f0\b  woodfall_logs_ef.csv
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 File: woodfall_taxa_masses_ef.csv\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 Description: Contains weights of (biomass in mg) of xylophagous bivalves.  Species ID coincides (rows) with species listed in 
\f0\b woodfall_taxa_ef.csv.  \
Columns: 
\f2\b0 Wood fall number, tag color, and site coincide with 
\f0\b woodfall_logs_ef.csv.  
\f2\b0 Number of individual weighed in biomass quantification is included.  Notes includes which individuals where also used for stable isotope and genetic analysis.\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 File: WF1_L-G-19_Quarter1_Coordinates.csv\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 Description: Data sheet provides spatial coordinates of xylophagid bivalves within a single wood fall.  \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Rows: 
\f2\b0 single individuals of xylophagid bivalves within the wood fall\

\f0\b Columns: 
\f2\b0 Xylo_group is taxonomy codes (columns) and coincide with codes in 
\f0\b woodfall_taxa_ef.csv 
\f2\b0 and
\f0\b  woodfall_logs_ef.csv. 
\f2\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
X is medial distance with larger values indicating deeper burrows, Y is proximal distance from the end of the wood fall along its long axis with smaller values indicating preference for wood fall ends, Z is measured as distance from a tangent line taken from the side of the wood fall used as a metric of surface preference with higher values indicating preference for the top of the wood fall, and W is the maximum burrow width. Y2 is Y recoded as distance to the closer end of the wood fall.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 File: XyloTeredi.nex \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf2 Nexus file for xylophagid bivalve phylogeny.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 File: wdf_xylos.csv\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Description: Data sheet provides isotopic data for xylophagid bivalves in study.\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Rows: 
\f2\b0 Individuals on of xylophagid bivalves \

\f0\b Columns: \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Unique_ID: Combination ID including wood fall number, species ID, and individual count from that wood fall.  Wood fall number and species ID \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 coincide with codes in 
\f0\b woodfall_taxa_ef.csv 
\f2\b0 and
\f0\b  woodfall_logs_ef.csv\

\f2\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
ID: Combination ID including wood fall number, species ID, and individual count form that wood fall.\
\
N.ind: Number of individuals sampled.\
\
species: ID of species, \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 coincide with codes in 
\f0\b woodfall_taxa_ef.csv 
\f2\b0 \
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
log: ID of wood fall, \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 coincide with codes in 
\f0\b woodfall_logs_ef.csv\

\f2\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
type: Species of tree for wood fall\
\
density: Whether the species of tree is soft or hard wood.\
\
d15N, d13C, percentN. percentC, C.N: isotopic values for individuals.\
\
richness: richness of species on the wood fall\
\
sampled: number of species sampled from the wood fall.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 File:
\f2\b0  wdf_wood.csv\
Description
\f0\b :
\f2\b0  Data sheet provides isotopic and compositional data for wood samples from deployed wood falls in the study.\
\uc0\u8232 
\f0\b Rows:
\f2\b0  Individual subsamples from each wood fall (from core, mid, and outer sections of each wood type).\
\uc0\u8232 
\f0\b Columns:
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sample_ID:
\f2\b0  Unique identifier for each subsample, including wood fall ID, tree species code, and core/mid/outer location.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Location:
\f2\b0  Section of the wood sampled (core, mid, outer).\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Species:
\f2\b0  Scientific name of the tree species.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
name:
\f2\b0  Common name of the tree species.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
type:
\f2\b0  Wood type (hard or soft).\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
subsample:
\f2\b0  Type of subsample (sawdust).\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
d13C:
\f2\b0  Carbon isotopic value (\'89).\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
%C:
\f2\b0  Percent carbon.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
d15N:
\f2\b0  Nitrogen isotopic value (\'89).\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
%N:
\f2\b0  Percent nitrogen.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
C_N:
\f2\b0  Carbon-to-nitrogen ratio.
\f5 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Code scripts and workflow
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1
\f0\fs24 \cf0 File: final.ecosystemfunction2.R \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1
\f2\b0 \cf0 Description:Complete code for non-isotopic analyses and plots in the paper.\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1
\f0\b \cf0 File: WDF_xylos_NicheMetrics.R \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 Description: Complete code for isotopic analyses and plots in the paper\

\f0\b File: Niche_functions.R\

\f2\b0 Description: Functions needed by 
\f0\b WDF_xylos_NicheMetrics.R 
\f2\b0 to conduce analyses\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb200\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 File: Niche_functions.R\

\f2\b0 Description: Complete code for isotopic null model analyses and plots in paper and supplemental
\f3 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 SOFTWARE VERSIONS
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 R version 4.2.3 (2023-03-15) \
Necessary packages:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Packages (version & purpose):
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
dplyr
\fs24  1.0.10 \'96 Data wrangling and manipulation\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
tidyr
\fs24  1.2.1 \'96 Reshaping and tidying data\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
stringr
\fs24  1.5.0 \'96 String manipulation and pattern matching\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
tibble
\fs24  3.1.8 \'96 Enhanced data frames\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
data.table
\fs24  1.14.6 \'96 High-performance data manipulation\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
plyr
\fs24  1.8.8 \'96 Utility functions for data aggregation\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hmisc
\fs24  4.8\uc0\u8209 1 \'96 Summary statistics and utility functions\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ggplot2
\fs24  3.4.2 \'96 Core plotting and visualization\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ggrepel
\fs24  0.9.2 \'96 Avoid overlapping labels in plots\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
gridExtra
\fs24  2.3 \'96 Arrange multiple plots in a grid\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
viridis
\fs24  0.6.2 \'96 Color palettes for plots\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ggpubr
\fs24  0.6.0 \'96 Publication-ready ggplot functions\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ggthemes
\fs24  4.2.4 \'96 Additional ggplot themes\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
vegan
\fs24  2.6\uc0\u8209 4 \'96 Community ecology, diversity metrics\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
MuMIn
\fs24  1.46.0 \'96 Model selection and multi-model inference\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
nlme
\fs24  3.1\uc0\u8209 162 \'96 Linear and nonlinear mixed-effects models\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
car
\fs24  3.1\uc0\u8209 2 \'96 Companion functions for regression diagnostics\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
performance
\fs24  0.9.1 \'96 Model checking and diagnostics\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
emmeans
\fs24  1.8.6 \'96 Estimated marginal means (post-hoc tests)\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ggeffects
\fs24  1.1.3 \'96 Visualizing model predictions\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
candisc
\fs24  0.4\uc0\u8209 8 \'96 Canonical discriminant analysis\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
mgcv
\fs24  1.8\uc0\u8209 41 \'96 Generalized additive models (GAMs)\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
SIBER
\fs24  2.1 \'96 Stable isotope Bayesian ellipses and niche metrics (SEAc, TNW)\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
spatstat
\fs24  3.3\uc0\u8209 0 \'96 Spatial analysis, polygon/ellipse area calculations
\f5 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\ri-1\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
}